= Platypus


== Type Casting

Require the casting library.

  require 'platypus/typecast'

Define a couple of typecasts.

  class ::String
    typecast ::Regexp do |string|
      /#{string}/
    end
    typecast ::Regexp, :multiline do |string|
      /#{string}/m
    end
  end

  ::String.typecast ::Integer do |string|
    Integer(string)
  end

See that they work.

  ::Regexp.from("ABC").assert == /ABC/

And again.

  "123".to(::Integer).assert == 123


== Pseudo-Types

Require the library.

  require 'platypus/type'

Now we can create types which are psuedo-classes.

  class KiloType < Type
    condition do |x|
      x.case? Integer
      x.kind_of?(Integer)
      x.respond_to?(:succ)
      x > 1000
    end
  end

  KiloType.assert === 2000
  KiloType.refute === 999

Using the convenience #x method.

  class MegaType < Type
    x.case? Integer
    x.kind_of?(Integer)
    x.respond_to?(:succ)
    x > 1000000
  end

  MegaType.assert === 20000000
  MegaType.refute === 999999


== Overloadable

The Overloadable mixin provides a means for overloading
methods based in method signature using an elegant syntax.
To demonstrate, we first need to load the library.

  require 'platypus/overload'

Now we can define a class that utilizes it.

  class X
    include Overloadable

    sig String, String

    def x(str1, str2)
      str1.assert.is_a?(String)
      str2.assert.is_a?(String)
    end

    sig Integer, Integer

    def x(int1, int2)
      int1.assert.is_a?(Integer)
      int2.assert.is_a?(Integer)
    end
  end

As you can see will placed assertions directly into our methods 
definitions. We simply need to run an exmaple of each definition to
see that it worked.

  x = X.new

  x.x("Hello", "World")

  x.x(100, 200)

But what happens if the signiture is not matched? Either an ArgumentError will
be raised.

  expect ArgumentError do
    x.x("Hello", 200)
  end

Or it will fallback to a non-signiature definition, if one is defined.


  class X
    def x(obj1, obj2)
      obj1.refute.is_a?(Integer)
      obj2.refute.is_a?(String)
    end
  end

  x.x("Hello", 200)


